# Akeeba LoginGuard

A real Two Step Verification system for Joomla!

## What does it do?

This solution adds a _Two Step Verification_ for Joomla! login. After logging in with just your name and password you are asked to provide your second step verification, e.g. a code generated by Google Authenticator. Until you provide a correct second step verification you will not be able to access any pages on the site. You will always be redirected to the "_captive login_" page. This is very much like what Google does when you try to login to GMail.

For more information and documentation for administrators, users and developers please [consult the documentation Wiki](https://github.com/akeeba/loginguard/wiki).

## Download

Pre-built packages of Akeeba LoginGuard are available through [our GitHub repository's Releases page](https://github.com/akeeba/loginguard/releases).

Akeeba LoginGuard comes with English (Great Britain) language built-in. We do not offer official translations in any other language nor do we accept pull requests for language files. You are free to provide free of charge translations for your own language, licensed under the GNU GPL v3 license, the same license the original files are licensed under.

## Support policy

The software is provided free of charge, personalised support and development for it is not. We will be happy to discuss bug reports and feature requests free of charge and only through GitHub issues as long as the conditions outlined below are met.

First and foremost, be respectful and understand that discussions are taking place on GitHub in the spirit of collaboration and camaraderie. Do remember that the word “Free” in the Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) acronym refers to freedom _of choice_, not price, as explained [by the Free Software Foundation itself](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/selling.en.html). Using our free of charge, FOSS software does not create any kind of business or other relationship between us, does not grant you any privileges and does not mean that we are obliged to offer a guaranteed service level free of charge. We only consider bug reports and feature requests in the context of what is best for the target audience of our software. Think of it as tending to the community garden everyone can use and enjoy, not fencing it off so that only specific people are allowed to use it.

Bug reports are only considered when the issue is reproducible given your instructions on a site and hosting _different than yours_. If it can only be reproduced on your site and / or hosting please try to isolate what is causing the problem and give more accurate instructions which helps us reproduce the issue. Only then can we investigate whether it's a legitimate bug with our software or a problem with your site or hosting environment. If your issue does not meet this reproducibility criteria, if it's unrelated to our software or is something already documented we will probably close your GitHub issue without further commentary.

Feature requests will be considered as long as they align with the needs and interests of the target audience of our software. You should understand and accept that we have the final word on what these needs and interests are. We also kindly like you to remember that just because something would be a great fit for _your_ business needs doesn't mean it justifies us spending time to implement and maintain it for everyone and for an extended period of time.

If you find these conditions off-putting you are always welcome to use the free access we provide to [our documentation](https://github.com/akeeba/loginguard/wiki) and source code to find a solution for your issue or implement your new feature / feature change as long as you respect the license of the documentation and our source code.

If you would like to receive personalised support for issues not meeting the “bug report” criteria or you would like us to implement or change a feature we rejected please state so in your GitHub issue either when filing it or when replying to it. In this case we can offer private support or development for a very reasonable fee. Do note that we may choose to decline offering that service if we have legitimate reasons to believe that your request cannot be reasonably fulfilled, is unlawful or we simply do not have availability. 

If you are a developer you are free to submit a pull request with your code fix to an issue / feature change / new feature implementation as long as there is a clear description of what you changed and why. We would greatly appreciate it if you could file a GitHub issue beforehand describing the issue you faced and including the words "PR will be provided shortly" in it, then referencing the GitHub issue number in your PR. This will greatly facilitate our decision making process in reviewing your PR.
 
## Prerequisites

In order to build the installation packages of this component you will need to have the following tools:

* A command line environment. Using Bash under Linux / Mac OS X works best. On Windows you will need to run most tools through an elevated privileges (administrator) command prompt on an NTFS filesystem due to the use of symlinks. Press WIN-X and click on "Command Prompt (Admin)" to launch an elevated command prompt.
* A PHP CLI binary in your path
* Command line Git executables
* Phing
* (Optional) libxml and libsxlt command-line tools, only if you intend on building the documentation PDF files

You will also need the following path structure inside a folder on your system

* **loginguard** This repository
* **buildfiles** [Akeeba Build Tools](https://github.com/akeeba/buildfiles)
* **fof** [Framework on Framework](https://github.com/akeeba/fof)
* **fef** [Akeeba Front-end Framework](https://github.com/akeeba/fef)
* **translations** [Akeeba Translations](https://github.com/akeeba/translations)

You will need to use the exact folder names specified here.

## Building a dev release

Go inside `loginguard/build` and run `phing git -Dversion=0.0.1.a1` to create a development release. The installable Joomla! ZIP package file is output in the `loginguard/release` directory.

If you want to build a release with development versions of FOF and FEF you will need to do some preparatory work. **This is NOT RECOMMENDED for most people**. Development builds of FOF and FEF may affect how other Akeeba and / or third party software work on your site. As a result you MUST NOT distribute these packages or use them on a production site. The steps you need to do are (from the main directory where you checked out all the other repositories):
```bash
pushd fof/build
phing git
popd
pushd fef/build
phing compile
popd
pushd loginguard/build
phing git 
popd 
```
This will create a dev release ZIP package in `loginguard/release`.
